When your father was still playing, he went to Italy and played, took you with him as
a young lad.
I think it taught you a lot.
It did.
I think that being in another country, my sisters and my mother taught us, first of
all, family values, because we didn't have anybody to rely on but our family.
I think that we had to be very mature in moving from city to city and place to place to respond
to that and to handle that as responsible human beings.
I think coming back here to America, I still kept my family values and the things that
my father and my mother had taught me.
He averaged 31 points a game last year, 12 rebounds.
He got six or seven assists a game, four blocks.
He just did it all and his team won the state.
That state championship really meant a lot to me.
In the previous years, it's all been individual goals.
Coming to my senior year, everybody put so much pressure on myself and my team to win
the state championship.
After we won, it was just like the biggest relief in the world.
I suppose the big question, because so few have done it and most have failed, as you
know, come out of high school to the pros.
It was just a challenge that was there.
What college would have been a challenge?
It would have been a challenge, but when people say that, yeah, the opportunity to go to the
NBA is the greatest players in the world, that doesn't get you going.
I don't think anything will.
In fact, you do some things like Michael Jordan I'm talking about.
Growing up, I always tried to dissect different players at an early age, whether it was Magic,
Michael, Pippen, whoever.
I tried to take different parts of the game and put them into my game so I can be a well-rounded
athlete.
You learned a lot in the summer league, I'll bet you.
Definitely.
I've learned how to play the NBA style of play, the physicalness, the mental toughness
that you need to get in there and get the job done in the season in the NBA.
I understand it's going to be a rollercoaster season for myself, but I'm going to get in
there and learn from these guys.
Yeah.
Well, you're probably going to be playing behind Eddie, your old friend from Philadelphia.
Eddie's pretty good.
Oh, he's very, very good.
I remember I used to play against Eddie when I was in eighth grade, ninth grade, tenth
grade, and he's basically seen me grow up.
I've seen him play at Temple all his years.
We really went at each other even at that early age.
Really?
Yep.
He's took me under his wing even at that early age.
I feel like you are going to put together the nucleus of the team.
This is a pretty good team you're with now.
Definitely.
I think we have a very good nucleus.
We have everything, all the ingredients, right ingredients for winning the championship.
Hopefully we can put them all together and get in there and get the job done.
What's it really feel like to put on the gold and purple?
It feels great because there's just so much pride behind the uniform and the legacy that's
behind the uniform.
I remember growing up and seeing Irvin Johnson coming to the NBA with the L.A. Lakers and
winning all the championships, him and Mr. Scott and Wordy and so forth.
And when I step on the court, you just feel so much pride to try to carry on the tradition
and carry on the legacy that Mr. West and Chamberlain and the captain, they all had there
and they all instilled there.
So it's just so much pride in that uniform.
And for you.
It's like a dream come true.
You know, ever since I got traded from Charlotte to L.A., it seems like I've been dreaming
and hopefully I won't start dreaming until the day I retire.
