Hello, my name is Spike Lee, and here we are in the Staples Center, home of the Los Angeles
Lakers.
April 13th, last year, where we shot my documentary, Kobe doing work, of our MVP, Kobe Bryant.
That day, the Lakers played the then world champion San Antonio Spurs.
We had 30 cameras on Kobe, he was miked, and with the assistance of Coach Phil Jackson,
he let us bring a camera into his sacred locker room, and we shot there before the game, halftime,
and postgame.
What you will see in this is one of the most driven, passionate athletes playing today.
From the very beginning, we wanted Kobe to give his commentary once we finished the piece,
and so we looked on the schedule, and the Laker was going to play the Knicks the day
after the Super Bowl, and so I said, you really want to do it after the game?
He said yes.
So it turns out, Kobe scored 61 points that game.
In his postgame interviews, he made sure to tell everyone that Spike Lee was responsible
for him scoring 61 points.
I got to go review this documentary I'm doing with Spike Lee, tonight after the game, I
didn't feel like sitting next to him and hearing him talk trash about the Knicks, so that was
added incentive as well, seriously.
Once again, I was being blamed for a great performance by a player.
It was great, though, hearing Kobe talk about the piece while he's watching it.
This film's about one great player, one day on the job.
Kobe doing work will be presented without commercial interruption.
So, sit back and enjoy, Kobe doing work.
This is a big game for us.
We're fighting to have the best record in the Western Conference, which means a lot
because the Western Conference is so competitive, having a home court advantage is crucial,
and playing our rival, the San Antonio Spurs, now it's time to get ready.
This game is very pivotal because what it comes down to is that it's not just about
the number one seed in the West, it's about league MVP honor.
For the Lakers, this is their time to really step forward, win the conference, put themselves
in the best possible position to win the whole thing.
To go up against the San Antonio Spurs, the reigning Defender World Champions, if you
beat them and Kobe shines, not only do you get the number one seed in the West, but you
also get league MVP honors.
I expect Kobe to beat Kobe, which is the best closer in the NBA.
So, if it's close late, it's going to be the Lakers winning it.
See, I never really thought about it like that.
That's not how I viewed this game at all.
It was always about what we were going to do as a ball club to advance.
Everybody's talking about, Kobe's the MVP, Kobe's the MVP.
I'm like, yeah, he's my MVP, but he still has to seal the deal.
Kobe certainly is the best player in the NBA and has been for quite a long time.
You know, what's cool to me is when all of this stuff is going on outside, you know,
inside in the locker room, it's nice and calm and we're just having a good time like we
normally do.
It's fun.
Barker's the one man at fast break.
He falls down a lot.
You guys know that.
Phil is the best I've ever seen at giving details about teams.
He's really meticulous about it.
He informs us extremely well on players' tendencies and not only that, but just the flow of the
game.
One of the keys, captains, is when you go to half court, make sure you tell the referees,
my coach told me to tell you guys, don't let Oberto or Duncan pick and use their hands.
They never give a damn.
Yeah.
We tell them that all the time and it doesn't matter.
We tell them that all the time and it doesn't matter.
They get away with it still.
But, you know, I guess we still got to do it, I guess.
It's show time.
It's show time.
This is the time that we bind together as a team before we run out.
I have goosebumps right now.
This moment gives me goosebumps every time.
Every time.
I've been in the league for years and I still get goosebumps when we run out.
It's such a great feeling.
That's a bad boy right there.
I have so much respect for his game.
He's an incredible competitor.
It's a shame he didn't play in this ball game.
I enjoyed playing against him.
Fantastic two-yard.
For number 7, 610, ninth year from Rhode Island, Lamar Goldov.
The other for number 10, 610, seventh campaigner out of Serbia, Vladimir Rodovic.
Starting at center, number 16, seventh year from Spain, Al Gasol.
I think that was a pretty good trade.
For the Lakers, Kobe Bryant has had a terrific supporting cast.
Lamar Rodovic has played so well since Gasol has been here.
Al Gasol healthy again.
Not a real big hype guy in terms of jumping up and down and stuff like that.
My teammates dig it, so I do it.
Showtime, it's go time now.
You think about all the execution, all the stuff that you need to do.
The preparations you've made.
You know exactly what San Antonio is going to do.
The hard thing is to stop them because they execute so well.
And I'm trying basic triangle offense now.
I just want to give them space to operate.
Ball deflected.
Bryant lost it out of bounds in one of the real fun matchups.
There's that one right there.
Bowen and Bryant.
This one may be the best perimeter defender in the NBA for the last several years.
Against the most talented player in the Lakers.
They're going to have a great time.
They're going to have a great time.
They're going to have a great time.
They're going to have a great time.
That's one thing I hate is turnovers.
I absolutely hate turnovers.
Lakers here at home have been very strong.
Twenty-eight and eleven.
You usually see something obviously with Lamar Odom teams
that feel like they can double off of him.
And we make them pay.
He just holds his position until the double comes
and then he cuts to the basket for a layup.
Here we go.
Got to be patient.
Got to be patient with San Antonio.
You can't rush it.
You have to be patient.
You know, Bruce, it's so fun playing.
A lot of players hate playing against Bruce Bowen
because he grabs and he holds and all that stuff.
I love it.
It reminds me of the 80s, man.
When they used to let you hit and grab and hold
and scratch and claw and all that.
I think that's fantastic.
Look at San Antonio's spacing.
They space so well.
They're extremely well coached.
You have to be smart as a defender that time
trying to close out to him at the three-point line.
Understand he wants to get to the interior of your defense
and dare him to be a jump shooter.
Odom foul on his way to the basket.
The reason why I say that is because we know it's a big game.
So a lot of times what happens with your ball club
is you get a little too animated.
You're a little too hyped up.
And as a result, you start blowing defense assignments,
offense assignments.
You just become too into the game.
And so normally what happens is a couple minutes go by
and all of a sudden your emotions settle
and now you're ready to play the game the right way.
We didn't want to get illegal defense
three seconds right there.
It's important that you touch a man cutting through that lane.
Got to size him up. Got to size him up.
Get in there, ball.
It's another thing I hate is I cover in three-point plays.
Stuff drives me nuts.
Drives me nuts.
San Antonio normally, they do such a great job of not fouling.
You know, when I'm penetrating the lane, they just stay up.
They stay solid. They wall up.
And they normally won't come down.
I rarely shoot more than five free throws a game against them.
The thing about Paul Gasol is you can tell him something like that
and he'll get it right away.
He's just a high IQ basketball player.
He's just extremely smart.
So it makes it really easy to play with a player like that.
Our whole team actually has a high basketball IQ
which makes my job a lot easier.
Man, this game is so fun.
I'm ready to play right now.
I'm actually, I'm doing this, I'm doing this voiceover right now
after I just scored 61 points against Spikes and beloved New York Knicks.
Touch it!
And I'm ready to play again.
Just because this video is getting me amped up.
This game is just such a beautiful game.
Ah!
We're in the triangle again. I'm in the post this time.
Double's coming.
Just gotta read the defense from here.
Try to make the right decision.
A lot of times this comes from film study
because you know where those guys are going to be.
It's like a quarterback.
The quarterback has to do his preparation
and make sure he does his homework
so he knows where guys are going to be open
when he sees a particular defensive assignment.
You're not out there guessing.
My high school coach told me a long time ago
you don't build a house without blueprints.
So you gotta know what you're doing coming in.
Same goals for the defensive end.
Duncan gets fouled.
Proud doesn't like it.
Gasol doesn't like it but he'll shoot free throws.
Hit and cut.
You gotta move the ball against San Antonio.
If you do any of that one-on-one stuff against San Antonio
they're going to make you pay.
You gotta move the ball, you gotta move cutters.
It's funny because a lot of times
when you're in the middle of the game
and you're in the middle of the game
and you're in the middle of the game
it's funny because a lot of times
me and Phil call the same thing
without knowing that each other called it.
I guess that's just from years of being around each other.
We just call the same thing
and see the same thing on the court
and wind up calling the same sequence of options
without knowing that the other one has done it.
It's pretty crazy.
That's a blown defensive assignment.
That really pisses me off.
You gotta let it go, you gotta move on to the next play.
Communicate with them and let them know
and make sure that that deep blown defensive assignment
doesn't happen again.
And that's just Bruce being Bruce.
You got the best of me right here.
There's Parker, lightning fast and banks it in.
Forget how quick he is.
Fisher comes right back the other way
inside to Gasol.
This time I go through with him.
You gotta keep your eye on the corner shooters
against San Antonio.
They're such a great corner two point shooting team.
And everybody knows that but they execute so well
they seem to get it anyway.
Laker is the fourth highest scoring team
in the NBA this season
and the highest scoring Laker team in 18 years.
They're averaging almost
208.5 points per game.
And it hit the
24 second shot clock.
I believe that's San Antonio's thumb down
ice play.
They love to go there, that's the kind of bread and butter
with Tim in the lineup.
With Tim, we can say about
the greatest power forward to ever play.
Period.
The reason why I did that
is because I know San Antonio is not going to leave me.
Bruce is not going to take his body off of me.
So that's a great opportunity
to get somebody else involved, to get somebody else
to do a really good shot, especially Derrick.
It's important for him to get a good rhythm.
As you feel right now, sometimes it takes time out
just to let the refs know
about a particular call and that
play right there, I remember he was upset about
the traveling call.
Don't just let Tony just bring it up.
Stay up there. Then when he goes behind you,
then go back.
The reason why I say that is because you gotta slow down Tony.
He's so fast, you have to be able
to corral him at some point
and stop his momentum. Because if he gets ahead of steam,
you don't have a chance.
This whole shot blocked by Duncan Bryant
right there, back up.
He's fouled.
Got hit from behind.
Nice.
I think what's cool
about this is that I don't think a lot
of fans understand the amount
of communication and execution that goes
into the game of basketball, at least on our team.
Phil and his coaching staff
preach that to us. It's about execution.
You have to
emotionally be invested in the game.
You have to play hard and all that other stuff.
Play with a lot of energy.
But you gotta execute.
I think that's what's great about our team
and having smart players on our team
is that we talk about execution all the time.
You can't stress that enough.
That's doing too much.
This is a dumb play by me.
This is a dumb play.
Should've laid the ball up.
Dammit.
Parker looking.
Shot clock down to nine.
Duncan doubled.
Good defense from the Lakers on this sequence.
Budoka has to force it up.
Way off the mark.
And it's all the rebound.
Trying to run it to the post.
You see, Bruce already knows where I'm going.
That's what's fun about playing against him.
He already knows where I'm going.
Ryan banks it in.
I actually stole that shot from Tim Duncan.
I played one on one against him before
an All-Star game a few years back.
I learned the bank shot from him.
I just stole it from him.
I swagger jacked him.
Almost an alley-oop.
That's it.
Corner!
You notice this game, I'm more of a roamer
defensively than I am in other games.
That's actually my biggest strength
as a defensive player is to be able to roam
around the floor and cause havoc.
With this particular line
that San Antonio has on the floor,
I can do that. It's not that Bruce isn't a great shooter
because he absolutely is, especially from the corner.
But I feel like I can get back to that
and we can rotate to that if we need to.
I can help out on Tony and Tim.
So this particular game here, I'm more of a
Ed Reed, Troy Palamalu
defensive player, I guess you could say.
Teamwork!
Defense of three seconds, so a technical foul.
All you guys over here, y'all didn't see that push in the back?
Of course not. That's exactly what Phil was talking about prior to the game.
Kurt Thomas, man, he's incredible at doing that.
The veterans are very crafty.
Stand up, pal!
Reflected by Gasol!
Gasol!
It finishes!
Laker defense
doing a solid job here on the first...
Get up!
You see it coming, you gotta be up at that pick.
Tony, look at the speed. Now we corral him.
We gotta use our sides. That's what we do best.
Use our sides, use our lengths.
Guard gets in there, don't let him get all into the basket and finish.
Hey! Hey! Hey!
5C! 5C!
Hey, D! 5C!
I call that because I know what the defensive rotation is.
So hopefully we can get something out of it
if the defense does what I expect it to do.
There we go, counter right back into the post.
Going to split.
Gasol!
Rebound taken by Parker.
That's how you get natural in this game.
Especially playing against a very defensive team.
He can hit a three.
He's won good looks at the basket. High percentage opportunities.
Ryan's only taken two shots.
Good balance early
for the Lakers.
Ah! Look at it!
Odom fires away.
Pow! Roll, pow!
Go ahead and roll, pow!
And San Antonio will call a timeout.
You see that hole there?
That's all right, you're going to create that momentum though.
So Phil wants me to take that shot
but I'm seeing if this winds up being a close game
I'd rather save that shot
for the fourth quarter
and continue to punish them with my teammates
and with Pow rolling to the basket.
If he doesn't have it, you got another shooter coming up
that'll have it.
I know, I know. I had him slipping so wide open though.
I was waiting for him to go.
And if it's a close game in the fourth quarter
I'd rather save those looks throughout the course of the game
because I know they're going to be there.
Those shots aren't going anywhere.
So it's somewhat of a chess game.
You got to think things through a little bit.
Get back!
Sam, come on!
Bonner!
Way off.
We're not comfortable giving that shot but at least we contested it.
Bonner's another great shooter.
Swing it. Swing it. Swing it.
Swing it.
Way, Jordy! Way, Jordy!
I'm with you.
Right on!
That's for saying if you get in trouble with San Antonio
you can overpenetrate.
Woo!
Gotcha!
Gotcha!
Got you!
That felt good.
You know, we always play around with each other
when we compete
because he's always hitting me with illegal screens.
I'm always throwing him with little elbows here and there
so I had to let him know that that one was good.
Tony Turiav, Jordan Farmar
Sasha Vujicic all in the game
Ime Udoka flips it in.
That's it! That's it!
There it is. There's a roll right there.
I was telling him to pile it up.
Same rotation. Same dot to the basket.
When you go baseline with your block
take one dribble under the rim
stop.
Go right up. They're not going to foul.
You're not going to body. You're not going to try to block it.
It's just going to be big. Take it right in there
Can't do nothing with you.
Xixi!
Udoka
Huh? I got him. I got him.
Now I've got a shooter. I've got a different player in the game.
They run sets for him
so I can't roam as much as I used to.
I've got to be more of a locked down corner.
Parker sneaks inside
and draws the foul.
That's my man Sasha doing what he does man.
Feisty kid man.
Feisty kid. He's going to get up in you a little bit.
Wait a minute. That's a double check.
Double check, yeah.
Double check, didn't you?
Udoka
I'm going to pay you about 50.
I'm going to pay you about 50.
Damn man.
Come on man.
Come on man.
I get lucky every once in a while.
See that's why I was talking trash to him.
Now he's a throwback player man.
He's going to foul you. He's going to foul you hard.
You got to love this.
Come back and get him.
Come back and get him.
That's fair for you.
That's fair for you.
That's fair for you.
That's fair for you.
That's fair for you.
That's fair for you.
One night, I was watching TV the other night against New Orleans.
It's not going to happen.
It's important for my guys to figure out where those
opportunities are going to come from throughout the course of the game.
Sascha's a great shooter, a great shooter.
There's probably Tony up at the top in isolation.
There you go, that's a shot too.
We got lucky, he missed that one.
Battle for the rebound. Parker again.
He lives in the paint.
He's great again to the basket and creating opportunities, and that's exactly what we don't want him to do.
Oh, yeah, get the spacing right here final seconds of the opening period I see what's going on Bryant for three
The first
Rooney
See if we can get you on the back side a little bit
Let Lamar somebody else fill the triangle right put me and you on the back side
So now right I can hit you on the pitch come off repeat
They can't do that me Lamar got a lamp off of that it's tough for them to play that
Get you on the back side a little bit somebody else fill that pole
It's fine no matter Jordan do a good job
You got the attention of shooters in the corner, that's what you can't have happen
Right so you do a that for a little bit, but you know you gotta get out right and Jordan Jordan
They call the fist when they call it this
Single double so you're up there by yourself right so you keep that in your mind's eye when you pressure
It's a fun game now that comes from preparation, that's me at home
Watching film and preparing and get ready for this game and so I can communicate to my teammates to make them better
It's more than you know making teammates better than just passing the ball
You got to teach them a lot of the things that you know the way that you prepare for the game
There's so many different levels to making guys better
I
Love that guy they're fishing that he's a warrior man
Pinch post Roni to believe
And you don't who comes up with it
On the bench I try to relax a little bit take my mind away from the game somewhat
But not completely because I like to see what's going on. I like to see what
What the offense is doing? Whatever you doing defensively areas that we can exploit corner shooter
That's what I think about when I'm on the bench boy your church
Lost-to-handle Finley good out let pass to Vaughn Vaughn goes at farm laws
I'll pass to your doka and he sneaks it in Phil won't call the timeout when that happens either
He likes guys kind of digging themselves out of their own grave a little bit when teams go on runs
And you're not playing as well unless you try to crawl out of your own grave
Bitch off
Oh
That's called get my ass in the game I've been over here long enough, let's go
It feels great man because he knows you know when I say something like that, you know
He's the type of coach that's like, okay cool way to get the game
You know some coaches might let the ego get in the way or whatever and Phil doesn't it's like old times, huh?
It's fine, yeah, they won't put Bruce on me to probably put a dammit on Luke got a mouse in the house
Luke got a mouse in the house
Little fellow
Now I'm talking to David cuz they're supposed to be going to war so I'm messing with David a little bit
Cuz we've had our playoff battles and he was important so I'm messing with him a little bit saying he can't guard Luke on the post
I
Am I that's a shot you've been doing that for you. That's his shot right there
Good pass that's a great passage when I'm all
Okay
And you have guys that can make plays it's tough for defense to really settle
Now I'm chasing him to the other side. So I know he doesn't like shooting the ball from that angle Duncan
By Bryant but a goaltender
That was just sending a message
Maybe a ref would call gold and then maybe he wouldn't
Let's see what Tim did
Oh
Gets it inside and catch it in
Move the ball move bodies cut through the lane. You don't got to get out space the floor
His dammit on that side of the floor again, you gotta try to keep him away from him as much as possible
Use your size
Farmer brings it across
Six and a half remaining here in the second all tied up
The reason why I said stay and normally I stand on the post but Luke he's played by a small player
I wanted him to stay in the post and he go to the corner this way when we swing it
We got that mismatch inside shot clock at four the Saul out to Odom just gets it off in time and
The Mars is just an incredibly talented basketball player his size and versatility ability to shoot the ball
It's his versatility is what makes us go
Hey, I'm trying to wrestle with trying to wrestle with Kurt Thomas down there, which is fun
I
Enjoy those battles
Because you're a little guy you got a little man complex
Especially going up against guys at a seven feet that much bigger and stronger than you are. So, you know
It's funny. Try to box those guys out
Split cuts
Brian a three shots off a movement how the soul making plays obviously very patient on the block the cross screen
Delivers the basketball on point Kobe Bryant knocks down the Dagon school
Eleven points to Kobe Bryant a lot of times in my shots office because it's flat
Antonio I put on the ball much much better shooter
If you could you could keep your balance
When you run by him keep the balance coming back. It's not gonna take no more than one dribble
That's the more communicating Lamar but the guy that's guarding him
He can get by him, but he's got to keep his balance
We got our solo going on or a triangle. We throw it in here. We're feeling right this guy cuts baseline
This weekside wing move off the lane a little bit. All right, they're gonna start hedging towards his little squeeze cuts
All right, but the weak side got to be up a little bit create that room
TV
See that Jordy. So if you're at the top whoever's at the top
Yeah, cuz they're gonna wish you that ball coming off
I thought you had a quick shot right? That's why I threw it back to you
We're too asleep sometime
You got to open him up a little bit because he's trying to back off
Not couple those down. He got to come out
You know, you don't want to pick up another foul. So you're gonna be real conservative
Just back up and try to put his hand up
wedding
This is funny watching the reason I realize I talked that damn much
I
Really want to do that
You see me wipe my hands on my shirt is because my hands are dry when your hands are dry the ball gets slippery
You can't really feel it. So I'm constantly trying to wet my hands so I can feel I can feel the texture of the ball better
I
Don't want to drag it see what they do at the corner field shooter in the corner
That's a foul damn Kurt
That's exactly what he's good at so that's why I got that look on my face like you know, that's what he's gonna do
No, that's what he's gonna do and then
I blew it
I
Thomas inside and he draws the foul
I should have knew y'all
Understand so much pressure on them. It's ridiculous. Both teams are gonna think that they're doing a poor job
I
Try to stay off him as much as possible
I mean at the times I get on him is when I feel like one of my teammates is getting hit
Or fouled or pushed or something like that. I'll stand up to them
Nice pass inside the Duncan
I
Let them know what's coming right now, so I see the call so
Here we go
Hope you how come teams don't try to hide the calls more
The reason why an NBA and basketball coaches don't disguise the cause as much as they do and say
Football because everybody don't know what you run anyway because there's so much film done
There's so much scouting done that teams know what you're gonna learn. But in this game, it's not knowing what you're gonna run
It's how you execute
You know, it's doing what you can to stop that that that's the big thing
That's the fun about the game is teams know what you're gonna do
But they know where I like the body know what moves are like, you know
But it's a matter of stopping that and it's coming up with counters for that. That's what makes the game fun
The three-second violation ball
It's having so many different levels of execution and the next time you face the team, they're gonna do something different
You know, so then it's a new puzzle. It's a whole new game
I like surveying the floor here and see what the defense is gonna do. I can try to put him in jeopardy
I
Saw that coming I was trying to go to him early and I bobbed with the damn ball
Fish loves that come we've been playing together for so long. I know exactly where he's gonna be all the time and I look for him
Come here, come here, come here, come here
Dive
Fisher, to Sal
Oh, this is the dunk
Perfect pass from Fisher, Walton for three
That's the dunk
That's the dunk
That's the dunk
That's the dunk
That's the dunk
That's the Fisher Walton for three
And the Lakers with their largest lead of the first time try to stay on Luke as much as possible
He's a much better shooter than he gives himself credit for timeout San Antonio
You'd be ready you'd be ready to shoot
Stop right you gotta
Hey, we can't care about dude's ball
You've got a bullet for three seconds, but you open.
Be big. See how I'm in.
Tear him up. We get a rebound, let's go.
Oh.
And you bring it here.
I'm going to revert. I'm going to just take it.
Yeah, if it ain't there, I'll just clear out.
But, you know, I'm going to have to make that cut once in a while.
Keep monitoring.
That's because they're trying to deny me the ball
and not let me touch it as much as possible.
So when he's bringing the ball in transition,
I see the opportunity to reverse, I'm going to reverse.
It's important to let your teammates know
this way you don't catch them off guard with that cut.
They can be prepared for it and throw the ball in advance.
That pass can be an alley-oop.
Sometimes it can be a bounce pass.
Like, Luke's such an incredible passer.
He'll make that. He'll distinguish that.
He'll know whether to throw it over the top or throw a bounce pass.
Hey. Hey, then hit me on the pinch.
Go get him on that double.
Hey, Fish!
Hit me on the pinch. Come off.
Get that double for a three.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now, the reason why I do that is because I want Ramonovich to get going.
It's important because he's such a great shooter.
I want to get him a look. I feel like he's not a part of this game yet.
And it's important that I make him a part of that.
So I know I can be a decoy on that strong side
and we can get him coming up for a three on the weak side.
Ooh, black.
Switch.
Get over there.
Uh-oh. Uh-oh.
See, he's trying to seal me in.
Free Finley up for that corner three. That's what I'm saying. Uh-uh.
Because I know what he's doing. I'm not going to let him do that.
I'm going to be able to get out to that shooter.
Here it is.
There's a lot of play. Now, here's the sequence.
Now, let's see if we can get Vlady over there. No, it's not there.
So we'll bring it off for a screen roll near Fish.
And now, from here, the play breaks down.
He's trying to make something happen.
He's a tough defender.
So Bruce is going to contest him. He does a great job contesting.
Ryan misfires. Parker gets the rebound.
I enjoy playing Tony.
He's so quick.
I like when I match up against little guys.
Parker inside.
You can use your size against him a little bit.
Fits it out to Finley. Finley again.
That ball fake and knocks it down.
It's fun to me.
There's no pressure in it. There's no fear.
A lot of guys, I think, when they match up with other great players,
there's a fear of embarrassment.
You know, to guard them, afraid that they might make you look bad.
I really don't care.
It's just fun going up against them.
If you're playing a great player, of course they're going to make you look bad sometimes.
But that's part of the game.
It is what it is.
Great move.
Oh, Parker.
A pretty play.
It was a little English.
It's a great move by a great player right there.
Much you can do about that.
That's exactly what I was just talking about.
Here he is coming at it.
Full head of steam.
Nowhere he's going.
I don't get the call.
Oh!
Nowhere he's going.
I don't get the call.
I knew exactly where he was going because he loves that two-step.
Nobody does it better than D-Wade
in the entire league.
Maybe Manu Janobu.
D-Wade and Manu Janobu do it the best.
But Tony, Tony's got the same move.
At least you ain't got to work as hard as you used to.
I've got to shoot 40 times.
How do you feel to be on vacation?
Oh, y'all had your fun now.
That's just fun.
That's just good conversation between two great competitors.
Here comes Tim.
You see, Tim does a good job staying high.
He uses his body extremely well.
We've got to try to complete against that.
But my penetration
has Tim come over for the help.
Referee's up power to the sole down low in case I miss it.
Power does a great job recognizing that.
Coward!
Here's a corner shooter.
Run him off the three-point line, make him do something wrong.
Here's Tim doing the same exact thing that Power just did.
Size him up.
See what's going on.
Screen roll.
Ryan steps back, says, I'll take him.
Make Tim do something.
Attack gets over the screen.
Ryan pulls past him and puts it in.
See, and the reason why I got that is because Tim never really
took the right line away from me.
And that's poor defense by Tim Duncan right there.
He's got to stay in front of the ball.
I think he was worried about Power's sole rolling.
As a result, he tried to stay between me and Power.
Going to the basket, and I had to be there.
So I was able to take it.
I hadn't taken it the whole game.
That time I turned the corner was real aggressive with it
as opposed to baiting the defense.
I don't think he expected that.
Ready move from Kobe Bryant.
He's got 13.
Parker, coast to coast.
And put it in.
With 3.1 remaining.
Another great move by 2P.
At the end of the half, that's one thing you don't want to give up.
And unfortunately, we gave that up.
You don't want to give up.
Those are momentum killers.
Everyone heard you say this is a statement game.
These interviews are always funny.
You're just out of breath and sweating like a pig.
Make your statement.
You have to capitalize on the easy opportunities.
We missed a lot of layups.
Had a lot of careless turnovers.
If we can do that, stay with our corner shooters, we'll be all right.
Their two centers have three fouls apiece.
They were already down a couple of players.
How do you take advantage of that now?
Let's continue to go at them.
We're going to beat them.
You try to catch your breath as best as you can.
And I sound like a complete idiot.
So right now, I'm already thinking about what's going on.
And what can we do better?
So now it's the time for us to collect ourselves.
And talk about what we're doing and what we're not doing.
Go get it.
Hey, on Parker.
You might want to wait until he jumps first.
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You might want to wait until he jumps first.
Let him jump first.
When he comes to the basket.
Let him jump first.
He's going to try to double pump every time he hits your body.
Then go late.
You just make it as hard as possible for him, that's all.
You jump at the same time.
You're good at getting body and then finishing.
Let him jump.
There you go.
Lay him out a few times and make him think about coming in there.
Absolutely.
Get him over with nice.
Like you got.
Hey man, you know what?
We make layups.
And stop turning that pitch over.
We could be up on double digits right now.
You just got to stay with it.
You ain't glad.
When you post up, wait until people get out the way.
Because if you let them gang defend.
They can chop away at you.
You know you want to post and go at them.
Let everybody clear out.
Parker's got 18 points.
This is a team defensive thing.
You know they get a little bump.
Fish got a little bump up in half court.
He's better than the rest of the whole team.
He probably should have went and got your body.
Sure would have.
You guys have to do the job on Parker as far as holding them up.
That's because San Antonio plays such a different pace.
We just weren't doing our job defensively.
We just blew too many assignments.
And as a result they had 53 points.
That's being physical.
You want to be able to dictate the tempo defensively.
You don't want them as an offensive player dictating what you do defensively.
You attack on offense.
You got to attack on defense as well.
You don't want them as an offensive player dictating what you do defensively.
You attack on offense,
you got to attack on defense as well.
San Antonio is going to beat you with three things.
San Antonio's gonna beat you with three things.
Tim Duncan, Monica Nobly, Tony Parker.
That's their bread and butter.
And we lucked out because Monica's not playing.
I know I got Fish and Tony over there.
If I didn't like that jump shot,
I was gonna go to Fish and Tony over there
on that pick and roll.
That's not an easy switch move.
I should've slipped to the basket right here,
instead of popping out.
That's what I love about our relationship,
is we can talk about execution.
Because we both love the same thing.
We love basketball, we love details,
we love that stuff.
So Phil and I can just talk about the game
non-stop all the time.
That's made me such a better player
being able to have a coach that is so detail oriented.
Second half, we trapped that ball in there.
We called once and they got a layup ball
and he turned his back and spun.
You're keeping this right here.
So when you turn the spin,
now he ain't getting that grip.
You know what I'm saying?
I basically grew up under his system.
That's why I think the game and approach the game
the way that I do,
because of what he and Tex Winter
and Coach Clemens and Frank Hamlin
and so on, so on, taught me.
At halftime, it's important to try to get that energy back.
Because a lot of times you come out with some sort of malaise
to start the second half and that's not good.
You gotta pick up the same energy that you left off,
even more so if you can.
I heard Vlady, he let everybody clear out
like I told him to at halftime
and try to make a play out of that situation.
It's not the start we wanted to the half.
We wanted to try to score first
and try to limit San Antonio.
We don't want them coming out with all the rhythm that they do.
It's such a great third quarter starting team.
Here's a sequence for Finley.
I tried to get through in the nine.
That looked like a decoy though.
He wanted to go into the strong side.
There's Timmy.
Duncan using the left hand short and then Odom the rebound.
Odom eight boards again.
He's seventh in the NBA in rebounding,
a 10 and a half per game.
Fisher fires away.
That's the shot we needed right there.
Derrick gets a good look, he's gotta make him putt.
That's when we're really at our best
is when he's shooting the ball so well.
This is me again, roaming around defensively.
Fisher all over Parker there.
I can get back to being a roamer.
Shot clock down to eight.
Got a corral, Tony.
Parker doubles.
Kurt Thomas tried a left hand, not his shot,
and Odom gets the rebound.
You can live with that.
With Tony having an 18.5,
we can't let him keep going like that with that pace.
There's a lot being talked about in terms of the triangle offense,
which we've seen here.
A lot of people put a little too much on it.
They think it's some mystical, magical,
extremely complex Albert Einstein offense.
It's not.
It's just basketball.
You have your spots on the floor that you go to,
which form a triangle.
And from that, you have a sequence of options
that you can execute.
And it's all a read.
It's just playing off of one another.
Phil, a lot of times, he doesn't call what he says plays.
He doesn't draw up plays.
He draws up sequences of options.
And then it's on us as a team to figure out
what's the best option at that moment in time.
And that's all he does.
And that's all it is.
A lot of times, people want something
that they can sink their teeth into and say,
the triangle is this play.
It's a team reading each other.
That's all it is out of a format.
And that format is the triangle triple post offense.
Outside of that, it's us freelancing
and reading what we can do best.
And that's how Phil coaches us.
That's why he talks execution.
That's why he wants players that have a high basketball IQ
because he's not going to hold your hand
and just walk you through it.
He wants you to figure it out.
And that's when you become a great team
and become impossible to defend
because teams don't know what you're going to do.
Fisher may have got away with a travel.
Why don't more teams run the triangle?
Because it's tough to teach.
And I think a lot of coaches nowadays
don't run the triangle because, hey, coaches
have such a short leash.
And to teach the triangle, you have to have patience
because you're going to go through ups and downs.
It's going to be tough.
You're going to look pretty bad.
Coaches nowadays have such a short leash
that if they're struggling or go through a season
where they've had ups and downs or what have you,
and they're going to get fired.
That's the truth.
Phil stuck to it.
It's paid off.
33-0, Fisher, such a popular player here.
He was their first round pick way back in 96.
First eight years with the Lakers,
including three rings, four finals,
and now back for his second stint.
Duncan, rushed it.
Woo!
All right, let's go.
Let's see what's going on right here.
A drag, probably.
Here it comes.
They're trying to blew it.
And I'm trying to take that shot a little bit now
because I see the defenses waiting for me to pass the ball.
So I got to do a little bit more serve
to look for that shot.
Go, D.S.!
Go, D.S.!
Go, D.S.!
Go, D.S.!
Go, D.S.!
Go, D.S.!
Go, D.S.!
Go, D.S.!
Go, D.S.!
Go, D.S.!
Parker misses.
Duncan right there.
It was back up.
And he draws the foul.
He's a great offensive rebounder.
He's going to push in the back.
He's going to do everything he needs to do.
Let me pick the ball up.
Let me pick the ball up, please.
Get him off my arm as I'm picking the ball up.
The reason I say that is because I didn't get a chance
to pick the ball up cleanly.
You still got to shoot through it.
But it's important for the ref to know that
because a lot of times they miss things
or they're maybe looking at something else.
So you're just trying to point something out
and you're not going to get a chance to pick the ball up cleanly.
You still got to shoot through it.
But it's important for the ref to know that
You still got to shoot through it.
But it's important for the ref to know that
because a lot of times they miss things
or they're maybe looking at something else.
So you just try to point something out to them
because they want to do the best job that they can.
So you try to point things out that maybe they missed
or maybe they don't see throughout the course of the ballgame.
Oh, go, go, go!
You got it, you got it!
It's ain't going nowhere.
It ain't going nowhere.
We got eight.
Bryant with three on the shot clock.
Fischer.
That's Lamar making the play. That's all order.
He made that play because he was doing such a great job posting up.
Now they have to double-team him.
That's a three.
You know, he made a great play, drew the double-team, kicked it out to me.
And now you got Fischer sitting alone in the corner.
I mean, that's exactly what San Antonio does.
We just mirrored him. We just ran it back at him.
Probably said, hell no, because I know the percentages and what guys shoot.
A lot of times you just play those percentages.
It's like a game of cards or whatever.
You know what players shoot what from the field?
You can live with certain percentages.
That was a shot at that pinky that I dislocated and my knuckle was down by my wrist when I did it.
And our trainer Gary Vee had to pull the knuckle back up to where it should be.
And I've been playing the rest of the season like that.
It didn't really hurt much, actually. It just felt weird.
When you look down at your hand, you don't expect to see your knuckle down by your wrist ball.
That's all part of the game.
D-W-S! D-W-S! D-W-S! D-W-S!
Lamar, jot down, Lamar.
Now, a reach-and-file on Fischer.
You sure about that one? You sure?
I'm positive. Absolutely sure.
I think you get it clean. I think you get it clean.
All right.
That ball went straight down.
D-W-S! D-W-S! D-W-S! D-W-S! D-W-S! D-W-S!
Duncan, this fires. Duncan now 5 of 14.
Transition three. I see Tim got close out to that now because Fischer just hit one.
So now it makes the defense adjust.
Fischer, nice feed. Now Gasol will finish and the Spurs call timeout.
That's why it doesn't matter if you know where the team executes.
On that post, that's absolutely right.
Take your time. Back his ass down.
What they going to do?
Right? Don't come all the way down. We going to do what we just did.
Same thing with you. What you going to do?
Take your time. Put his ass in the hoop.
Right? What they going to do?
They don't need for you to rush. Get exactly what you want.
Put his ass in that rim.
They got smaller guys on them. Put them under the basket.
When we come in double team, then we'll swing it and get exactly the shot that we just did.
That's my girl.
That's where it's at right there.
There's nothing better than that.
When you go home with your wife and kids and all of the hype, all of the pressure from the game, it's absolutely nothing.
They don't care about any of that stuff. You're just daddy at home.
I love that. I miss my babies.
That's the guy's sport.
Down here, keep talking on defense.
I used to play with a city that could make a pass like that.
That was a hell of a pass, man.
That's better than winning the game, award.
Oh, yeah, I know.
You know, you already won it.
I know.
Right there.
Thank God it looked like they mama, though.
Hey, great job.
Great job.
Good job.
Fish!
Hey!
No, you come up to the guard.
Come up to the guard.
Hey, hey!
Stay there!
Go there!
Give him the ball!
We're gonna bring somebody in the post here.
She's gonna turn it off, and here we go.
Back him down!
That's exactly what we want.
That's exactly what we want.
That's exactly what I was just telling Lamar about.
Creates an opportunity and here we go.
Just put him under the basket, make him make a decision.
And Lamar made the right play right there.
And this is what I couldn't do years ago
because I didn't have the personnel on my team
that I have now.
See in the past I would have to score 35, 40 points
just to keep us competitive.
Now I don't have to do that.
So you see me directing more so than anything.
I'm more of a compass,
making sure we're going in the right direction,
making sure we're executing well
because I have the personnel to be able to do that now.
It's made my life a lot easier.
I'm still capable of having big score nights
but I just don't have to do it.
Ah!
Tomo.
I'd say Derrick Rachel knows me too.
You know him, he's a teammate.
Wow.
Fighting for the ball.
Fish! Fish!
That's reverse action.
Every team in the league knows what this is.
You know, this is me just basically coming up
to the top of the key or the elbow area
and making the play.
It's either isolation or, you know,
we go to drop right here.
Now I clear them out.
We've got someone on the weak side.
Here we go.
Fisher.
That's a three.
Because you know, they know where that's coming.
So they think I'm going to isolate and go one on one.
So as a result, they got to have help defense.
And when they have help defense,
I know I got to shoot.
San Antonio still looking for their first field goal
in the third quarter and we're almost halfway through.
And before, you know, that wasn't Derrick Fisher.
So I'd have to, I'd have to go one on two.
But now, you know, I can just make the defense pay.
They want to leave me, I'm going to hit Derrick.
Derrick's going to knock it down.
Fisher pulls up.
He's feeling it.
See, now he's in a great rhythm.
We're a better team because we got Powell going.
Lamar's going.
DeFish is going.
So, you know, now what is the defense going to do?
Are they going to stay at home with these guys?
And then that's what I get going.
Bryant pulls up.
That's a two.
In and out.
I'm mad because I missed that three
because those are backbreakers.
When you get a run going, you're up by 12, 13 points.
Madoka blocked.
First by Alden.
That was close to being the goalkeeper.
Radmonovic wide open.
And she leaves a momentum to create it as well.
A big block like that.
Stop San Antonio's momentum.
Then we finish it and put the exclamation point on it with a dunk.
So now you're looking at San Antonio
maybe calling a timeout to try to stop this momentum that one.
Big block.
Big turnover.
A big three.
Things like that can change the momentum of the game.
That block kind of got us going even more.
Shot clock at three.
Parker dribbles it off his foot in a 24-second violation.
And that's center-opposite.
Everybody knows that as well.
A lot of guys in the runner-up league doing the Olympic team
were teasing about that call
because they know exactly what that call is.
You make the first cut.
Let him make the first cut.
That's even me coming into the post.
Usually me coming into the post.
But in this situation, we might bring Lamar to the post here.
We run back to the reverse action.
Here we go.
And a foul on Madoka.
Yeah, yeah.
Punch his ass.
So the Lakers will take it out of bounds.
Madoka picks up his first.
Rub his ass.
You know, foul language is just a thing of sports.
It's just a part of sports, man.
It's like saying a curse word.
An athletic moment just puts the punctuation on the sentence.
It's the period needed to add a little emphasis to what you're saying.
Hold him.
A couple of jab steps.
Don't settle!
The reason why I said don't settle is because he's got great success backing him down.
So don't settle now.
Just back him on down.
Make the defense do something.
Don't bail him out by shooting a jump shot.
That's a three.
Count it and a foul.
Odom knocked him down and a chance for a four point play.
A big timely bucket for Ime Madoka.
And don't foul a jump shooter.
That's exactly what we don't want.
We do not want to foul a jump shooter.
Now he's trying to body him out, force him off the post a little bit,
which is what a good defensive player should do.
So you see the defense now getting a little bit more aggressive with him now.
Edward!
Don't foul!
Don't foul!
And all of a sudden, last touch by Odom.
Let him body him like that.
Let him body him like that.
You can't body him down low.
Turn, turn, turn.
You know, I'm going to stick up for my teammates.
If I felt like one of them got hit and it was a missed opportunity to get to the free throw line,
I'm going to stand up for them.
It's important that the back side of the defense does most of the communicating,
because the back side of the defense sees the floor the most.
It's important that you let your guys know in front of you what's going on,
because they don't have lives in the back of their heads.
They can't see out everything as you can if you're on the back of the defense.
See him saying push.
That means they want to keep me on the same side of the floor.
Well, Bryant comes off that pick and roll with one thing in mind.
Find Gasol off of Tim Duncan's health.
But now I go over the screen,
and now I'm trying to see what Tim's going to do.
Make him commit.
And the power does a great job of keeping the ball hot.
He doesn't bring the ball down and allow guards to strip him or foul him and get away with it.
He keeps the ball high and he completes at the basket.
I mean, that's just fundamentally sound.
Which a lot of big guys don't do for whatever reason.
And here we go, we close that off.
That's exactly what we didn't do in the first half.
Bowen draws the foul out of three.
Smart play from Bruce Bowen as Kobe Bryant picks up his third.
Damn, Bruce.
And we'll have a timeout.
You can't shoot free throws anyway.
You shoot at a higher percentage from three than you do from the free throw line.
Bowen.
You can't shoot free throws anyway.
You shoot at a higher percentage from three than you do from the free throw line.
Huh?
Bowen.
Bowen.
Bowen.
We have that all day because he's scared to commit to me.
So, we stay on the string like that.
We should be able to get layups or dunks.
Hell.
Hey, with Tim in the post here.
You staying home here.
You only going on Tim once he makes his move.
Once he makes his move either when he turns his back
and he makes his move going middle or going baseline
then you come and f*** with him.
Right?
So, if you got it on the catch, you can't do that.
You stay out here.
Bait him.
Just stay out here like you're staying out on the shooter.
Then when he makes his move, you go and f*** with him.
It's important to mix it up with Tim.
Because if he knows what you're doing every time, he's going to kill you.
It's like a boxer.
You got to break your rhythm defensively when you're going up against a great player.
You can't give him the same look. You got to feel it.
Hey, it's a ten point quarter for him so far.
Like that.
Like that.
Alright, where's the penalty?
They got three free throws here.
I know this guy's not a great free throw shooter.
Jordan, let's run a
reverse action off
the blind peek punch.
Alright.
Go to Luke.
Yeah.
Do you think you're blocked?
Do you think you nicked the backboard? You get up a four, do you think?
The one when you came out of nowhere and blocked.
I thought you saw I nicked the backboard, but it was really short.
Yeah, that's, you know.
That ball had no chance of going in.
I don't think so.
Of course, Bruce goes in and knocks it down.
Doesn't even touch the rim.
Sometimes it goes like that, but you can live with the percentages.
Yeah.
See, Bruce knows where I'm going.
So, you know, you gotta just run through it.
Try to execute as best you can.
Doka, no physical pressure.
Got Kobe Bryant mad for a second.
Takes his time backing in.
Inside, tough shot.
Always doing. Backing him down.
Make the defense do something.
Like you watch here, he actually grabs my arm.
Which the rest can't see because it's in the crowd.
So as I try to make the turn, he grabs my arm.
And as a player, you gotta play Kugel.
And I can make that play now
because all my teammates are threats.
They're reluctant to double team because they've been knocking down shots.
And then it's my time to go to work.
Out!
Duncan doubled.
To Bowen. Odom hit him from behind.
Shot clock winding down.
Bowen's shot won't go and Bryant the rebound.
Don't survey the floor a little bit.
Two minutes remaining in the third.
That's foul.
Bryant over Bowen.
Way off. Gasolbo gets him a new 24.
Gasol, another offensive board.
The big key to winning games in the NBA
is second chance opportunities.
Because you think a great three point shooter
shoots 40 percent.
Bryant inside.
Make them all.
So if you're shooting 40 percent,
that's still a shooting 10 threes.
You make four of those.
So that leaves all of those rebounds to get.
So you gotta go get those things.
You can get more possessions.
Oh, it feels good to hear that.
That means they respect what you do.
They appreciate what you do.
Especially in the city of Los Angeles.
It's rare to see nowadays one player be with one organization
for so long or for their entire career.
I came to LA when I was 17.
I'm not sure to validate the contract.
That's me and Sasha speaking Italian.
You notice our team is basically like the United Nations.
We have Italian, we have Spanish,
we have Congo.
We have everything.
Slovenian, French.
We're all over the map.
As a result, all of my teammates,
that's why they're here.
Spinning, inside, draws the contact.
And Gasol will pick up his second foul.
We don't even need to leave a feed, we had it, you know.
So you want to finish the quarter, though, if you see there, you know, we got a 12-point
meter, so...
Through you.
Reverse action.
One-ten left in the third quarter.
You want to finish this quarter strong.
Get momentum going into the fourth quarter.
You don't want San Antonio, but whoever you're playing, getting that momentum going into
the fourth quarter.
That's taking away all the hard work that you just did.
10 seconds, Tim.
Say that because he took like 20 seconds to shoot that thing.
Felt like I was standing there forever, man.
Felt like the longest stoplight in the world.
11-point lead right now for the Lakers.
Final minute third try it don't go dunk in the board. I felt good. I hate when shots feel good and they don't go in
You got it just tweaking you can get a body going to the next play
Yeah, I don't dwell on miss shots at all. I don't think about that stuff
Very very optimistic
I miss five in a row. That means I'm due for the sixth one
Mr. Six when I'm definitely for the seventh one. I miss the seventh one. I mean that eighth one's going in
I
See a style my goals right she said step back
Goes left this time tries to get the corner shooter
Ryan puts it up
Ryan puts it up now. That's when you stamp on the quarter right here with a shot Ryan puts it up
There's now now you go back to the bench the team is energized
That's why I was so pumped to make that shot because I knew that was a big momentum
Boost for us going into the fourth now bitch coming there with all the confidence all the momentum see everybody high-fiving
Lakers score the spurs
2614 here in the third quarter
Tony Brian now with 20
Nailing the three-pointer of the final seconds and LA up by a dozen that builds up the momentum
So now we got a lot of energy now
I'm laughing to myself because I just missed a couple easy shots and now I make that one
Which is a tough shot
Say what I saw I came over the top on that one, right? Yeah, so I took that one dribble your man did what?
Is even when I get up in the air
No, yeah, I mean I'm okay. They must be that a la bomba
Sounds like he
Got that jump anytime you want anytime you want. Yeah, anytime you want it is there. It's such an intense game
You gotta have fun. You gotta have fun tease one another have fun with each other
He catch it go right at him. This is stuff that we were doing kids. I'm still a kid at heart
I still feel like I'm in the driveway
Remington Road in Philadelphia
You know playing basketball and just dreaming about the situation
Oh my god
That's me teasing I'm saying, you know, he didn't want to take that shot. I'm saying, what are you scared?
You're not ready. Just checking the ball game and cold. So if you are the Macato, you didn't want to shoot that ball
I thought you had, you know bigger cojones than that
And that's him saying he's gonna take it to the basket and don't pull somebody and I'm like, yeah, right
That'll be the day
That's what we do that's what we do we rip each other we tease each other makes things fun
Kobe how does game prepare you for the playoffs?
Well, this is a big game for us because we know that we might see San Antonio down the road in the playoffs
And what this wind does for us is it sets us up to have home court advantage throughout the rest of the playoffs
Until it gives us great momentum going into the playoffs and knowing that if you face San Antonio
Then we have a great deal of confidence because we know we can beat them
Beat them in the season series here
Now we're like, okay, you know, we're playing well. We're playing the right way
We've got a big blowout win here going such the tables a lot of the season is about energy and peeking at the right time
Well, you know now we'll progress we're going to the finals and faces the Celtics and we had moments we executed extremely well
So we'll be this is that they'll have burst of three-point shooting and just broke our backs
You know, we have moments because it's such a great team to defense
So we have possessions where we have four or five empty possessions and by that
I mean, you know miss shot turn over, you know offensive foul whatever it may be
The Celtics would turn come right back and knock down two or three straight three-pointers
So now say if it's a two-point deficit BAM five BAM eight
BAM 11 you're scratching your head and you're saying damn we got a big hill to climb
But you've been in the ballgame, but it's those bursts of energy that you had that just heard
We're stealing all and I was pleased with the way that we played because being a young team
This season was pals first ever season in which he got out of the first round
Made it all the way to the NBA final. So I'm proud of my guys, but we learned a lot playing itself
It's we learned that we have to be a better defense team. We gotta be tougher. We gotta be stronger
We're gonna be ready this year
Was MVP mean to you I
Think was special about this season is that you know, I felt like we were such a community
We're such a great team. We all got along
I felt like it was an award that we shared together
Which made it more special because I felt like we did it, you know, because they made me better
By them, you know getting in the gym working on their game and making plays and making shots that in turn brought me the
MVP
You know in the past, you know, I hear a lot of my fans saying I should have won it before maybe maybe now
I don't know
But when an MVP was uh, you know, it was a great honor because it was something that we shared together as a new
Colby this game you south the whole court tonight
February 2nd
Masquerade garden you score 61 points
I know February 2nd man 2009. No, I felt great in all honesty
You know I shoot around this morning, you know
We going through our shots were going through our regiment and I look at our system coach Frank Ham and I said Frank
He was gonna be 50 tonight. You told him that yeah, I told me he said alright, let's let's do it
And the way you were shooting the ball
No, it wasn't it wasn't because of the way I was shooting the balls because of the energy that I had I felt very calm
I felt very focused. I just thought there was nothing that was going to distract me or take me out of that space
Just had that feeling and now it's just a matter of holding on to that and once I had it
You know
I just kept going it turned into a big night and doing it in Madison Square Garden is extremely special because this has always been a
Place where I love to play because they they love the game. They genuinely love the game
And it's been so many great players that came through here
This is just such a long list of them and you know watching the great Bernard King put on incredible performances here
Obviously Michael Jordan's going 55 points at the garden. I remember being in high school and watching that game and just
Just marvelling and just wishing that that one day, you know
that could be me up there putting on a performance like that and you know fast forward to
2009 and you know here we are and you know a lot of times it's the way I feel about when I have nights like this
It's I feel like it's not me doing it, but I feel like it's you know, it's just a blessing from above
I feel like it's it's God working through me and blessing me with this moment in this time
To be able to perform like that. I
was at that game of Mike's court 55 and
We always gave Mike's stand ovation, but never have I been in the garden where Nick fans had chanted MVP
Player
How'd you feel I know I felt credible to hit him chat MVP. It was just it just
It's just such a great feeling and
The more it sinks in the more and more I appreciate it because during the game you try to stay in your pocket
So you don't want to take it in or or think about what that means too much because you try to stay focused
But as you think about it after the game and what took place, it's just it's extremely humbling
Put him in the candy shop boy
You look at the back pages tomorrow, you know what, you know, it's funny, you know
My wife is more more anal about that than I am. She she saves all the clippings
You know my kids would be furious at me if I did brought home a newspaper and stuff like that and save it
They're more into that than I am
He wants to try to dump one. That's why he's trying to go real hard
I'm telling you what the man said
Shopping ain't blessing with jumping ability
The reason why I love what we're doing here is because a lot of times I feel like when I do these interviews
I answer the question is truthfully and I think fans sometimes don't know what I'm talking about like the energy of the game
You know how we execute or what that execution entails and I think you're watching this film
They'll actually get a chance to see exactly what I'm talking about
So when I say that it makes sense to them now, they know exactly all the execution that we've been doing a communication
I've been having with my teammates and with that statement me
They're playing so well all year long
God love LA
Your hands are going this way
I got
He made
Took me like 15 times to get it, right?
So something good second half. I was playing it the right way, but things done got some help
Sasha I was had to pull you out the game. So you didn't get about there just to play the last two three minutes of the game
I don't understand it. I'm gonna tell you what happened. He said he should have dumped the one in the first half
So he's trying to don't drive
You know, you're gonna get banged up and then pull up and make
Baseline you can't be making those kind of passes off the dribble like that to that this team
Take the ball up. I think the inside
Come on
This is a ritual that feels had since his days in Chicago on Sundays
We always get together and say the Lord's prayer at the end of ballgames
You have to give your thanks and we're all blessed to be in this position and do what we do and you have to give
Thanks to the Lord above
It is my baby
She's a she's the biggest daddy's girl in the world
She's the biggest day I thought I thought I thought he was a big daddy's girl
But now she's not that he looks like me, but she's more of a mommy's girl
Yeah, no looks just like my wife, but she's more
I
See she just watched really that's why I'm doing it because
We put our doors on the Michael Jackson cuz they had no idea who he was
So you like watching the thriller movie in the car now Natalia who's the one jumping up and down?
She loves it. She's trying to learn the dance moves and Gianna. She kind of like shouts away from it
She doesn't want to like she doesn't it scares her a little bit
So that's what I'm doing on the way home you go through all this stuff of execution and all this stuff going on
Meanwhile, we're in the car on the way home, you know singing thriller
I'm not hesitate. That's an all you can relate
Gather round the schoolyard gate history will record this day
Allow me to illustrate
The time for the shake and back it up
But let's hear and never take
And the village children
This thing is great my excitement will not obey
I will let them not hesitate. That's an all you can't relate
Gather round the schoolyard gate history will record this day
Levitate
And the village children
Is my hope you enjoy kobe doing work, this is spike lee see you later
Backs it in Kobe's a very dynamic player
Very dramatic right a three definitely. Yeah, he's the right person for this piece Brian puts it up
Spike Lee who's making a film along with ESPN films today. It's a day in the life of Kobe Bryant
Body parts, you know his legs are beautiful his arms
shoulders
Get those nice
Pieces, please. They have 22 cameras ESPN ABC and we're gonna augment it with another 15
But the 15 cameras we have are all gonna be focused on Kobe right here ABC can't go any further than this
We can we're one game away from the beginning of the playoffs season. So it's a big game. Hey, come here, buddy
I'm out of state. I'm gonna do like this the fact that they're letting us do this is a big deal
Oh
We welcome you to Los Angeles
And a sold-out Staples Center in what is a huge game for Kobe Bryant and the Lakers a
Day in the life with Kobe Bryant. What is it you want to reveal to your audience about Kobe? Well, I think he's a
wonderful talent
Bill Jackson gave us unlimited access locker which is never done before
Kobe's yeah, we asked Kobe to come up so we got two seats on the corner for Maddox
And we've also got two spots on the floor what Spike Lee brings to this particular documentary is his absolute love for the game
I mean, it's it's readily apparent when you're standing next to him when he's watching a sporting event spike is
The dynamite is obviously an artist is a sports fanatic. He understands the game very well. I
I
Hope that we're able to sort of convey the intensity of a player
I think people will capture that intensity by just having so many angles on it
Basketball is a great thing, you know, and we hope that this can be a novel way that people never seen a basketball game before
You
You
